In this video, we're going to learn how to find a basis of the eigenspace associated
to a given eigenvalue. Just a quick reminder, remember that
an eigenvector.
Is a vector that simply gets stretched out when we do matrix multiplication.
So another way of saying this is that when you multiply it by A you just get some scalar
times your vector back. So if we're handed an eigenvalue Lambda and
we're trying to find the eigenvectors. We just need to find the vectors that satisfy A X equals
lambda X. And when we do that is similar to when we're finding eigenvalues
will rearrange this in fact around. And so we're looking.
When there's (A minus lambda I) X equals zero.
And to rephrase this in terms of things we've learned before. This is saying that X
is an element of the kernel of A minus
lambda I. So if we're trying to find a basis on the eigenspace,
we're just trying to find a basis of the kernel of a particular linear transformation.
All right, so for this particular problem written in black here, we want to find a basis of the eigenspace
associated to that value negative three for this matrix A.
So we're going to try and find the kernel of A minus negative three I. So the first
thing we'll do is we'll write down A minus negative three I
Which is the same thing as a plus 3 I
So, the identity matrix is ones on the diagonal.
So three times the identity matrix is threes on the diagonal and zeros everywhere else. So
3 to the first spot. We'll add a three
second spot of the second row. 3 to the third
spot of the third group and in the fourth row will add a 3.
to the fourth spot. But
In order to find the kernel, we'll need to do the reduced row echelon form.
I've gone ahead and typed into a calculator and we end up with
1 4 0 -1;  0 0 1 2;
and then 2 rows without a pivot.
So now if we look at our reduced matrix here, we see two.
non-pivot columns, so we'll have two free variables so they can, let's say
x2 equals A and x4 equals b.
And now our first row says x 1 plus 4 x 2 2
is a, so I'll go ahead and write in a there in there,  minus X 4, which was b.
Should be equal to zero of course, and x 2 is a.Our second row says x3
minus 2 x4s -- x4 was b--should also be0.
So now we just look at our first and third equation and solve for x1 and x3, we'll have x1
is negative four a plus b; x2 is a; x3 is 2b; x4 is b.
This will allow us to write down the kernel of A minus negative 3 I.
3. By.
So all of our vectors -- we said x1 is negative 4a plus b
x2 is a; x3 is 2b; X four isb.
And now we simply want to note that this is the span of two vectors.
From the a's, we have a -4 1 0 0
and from the b's we have 1 0 2 1.
So those two vectors are linearly independent. So our set of these
two vectors. -4 1 0 0.
And 1 0 2 1.
This is a basis.
of the eigenspace.
So as I've written that it's slightly ambiguous because every eigenvalue is going to have their own eigenspace.
But in this particular context, we've only talked about one eigenvalue. So it's clear that the
eigenspace we're talking about here is associated this eigenvalue negative three.
If whatever you're working on, you're talking about multiple eigenvalues. You should then say which eigenspace you're talking
about down here for this context.